A creative response to the climate crisis, this thesis describes the design and presentation of synthetic water sounds in an immersive audiovisual experience. The project is intended as a contribution to the field of ecological sound art. This developing area within the environmentalist movement champions creative audio pieces that allude to specific ecological issues. Here, a soundscape composition with accompanying visuals depicts the geoscientific stages of a storm surge, a prevalent, destructive event caused by climate change. The sound design and videography seek to place the audience at the center of the action, rather than at a distance, as in the common case of news reports. The driving motivation is to emphasize that global warming affects everyone and must be confronted universally.
With these goals in mind, the soundtrack was produced with virtual instruments in the Digital Audio Workspace (DAW) Reason. Experimentation with synthesis techniques and precise methods in noise oscillation were implemented to create realistic water sounds. Together with musical elements, the arrangement was mixed in three dimensions using the object-based audio technology, Dolby Atmos. Visual footage was captured in collaboration with a cinematographer and the soundtrack was synchronized accordingly in post-production. In addition to images of melting glaciers and rolling ocean waves, the visuals display an apartment filling up with water, a scene that is directly relevant to the human experience of a natural disaster and the broader implications of rising sea levels. The resultant film was shown in a space with surround sound and video capacity to a panel of experts. Their critical impressions indicated that the creative and technical components of the sound design were successfully executed and that the meaning behind the piece was clear and moving. The level of immersion could be intensified with stronger spatial effects that further personalize the experience.
